in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of management
groups
i previously talked about what we may
end up with is multiple subscriptions
hey i've got maybe multiple
subscriptions for development
maybe multiple subscriptions for
different purposes for production
maybe there's a whole bunch of different
subscriptions over different business
units
and we talked about the idea that i can
have role-based access control and
policy and budgets at these various
levels
but what about if i have tens and
hundreds of subscriptions and i want to
be able to do role-based access control
and policies and budgets
that apply to multiple and not have to
do it on a per subscription basis
this is where management groups come in
we talked about the idea of an azure ad
tenant and every subscription trusts one
and only one azure ad tenant so i can
think about at the top
i have the azure ad tenant
for my particular organization
now by default without doing anything
else
i'm always going to have a root
management group
and then what i can manually add is a
hierarchy
so i can actually create a complete
of management groups
now i can go up to six levels
of management groups that does not
include the route it does not include
the subscriptions underneath now don't
over complicate it
we create what makes sense for our
particular requirements
now maybe in this case i've got the idea
that well these subscriptions are going
to tie up to this particular management
group maybe this is dev
maybe this is prod
i might also have the idea
of i might create a layer for different
countries particularly
there's a whole set of different ways i
can think about constructing my
management groups
but the key point is once again what can
i do a management group well a
management group i can apply budget
i can apply rule based access control
and i can
apply
policy you guessed it and once again
they're inherited down so if i set a
role-based access controller production
it would get inherited to the child
management groups to the subscriptions
to the resource groups to the resources
same for policy budget would roll up to
whatever level it is
so the whole point of the management
group is it's there to help me
manage a group
of subscriptions and by management we're
talking about hey i want to apply a
certain policy or a certain role based
access control
i want a certain budget
and what i'll do is near the top
there'll be more general role based
access control more general policies
then as i get closer to the resource
i'll get more specific because i can
still have mod-based access control on a
sub still have them on a particular
resource group even on a particular
resource that we try and avoid that it's
hard to manage
so i could have a very general set of
maybe production policies and rbac
and then for a particular application it
might have its own set of rbac so they
get inherited through them so i'm going
to create what makes the most sense for
my company i might also have geography
in here
if we go and look it's super simple to
see so i'm just looking at my management
groups
we can see i have that idea of i'm going
to expand extend this out i have the
idea of well yeah there's my tenant root
group
then i created a all savile tech
subscriptions management group under
which i actually have two subscriptions
then i also have a dev management group
and a production management group
if i look at the management group let's
just pick this all savile tech
subscriptions
well what can i do on there once again
we have this idea
of
access control
we have the idea of policy
and we have the idea of budgets
so i can set all of those things if i go
and look
for example access control
and look at role assignments
i can actually see well the owner is
john savile on this resource
we can actually see i've inherited a
certain right from the parent management
group
and this applies all the way down
so if i then went and actually looked at
a certain subscription
let's actually then look at its access
control
when i look at scope of various
permissions hey look i can see some of
them were inherited from the management
group
if i was to then go and look at a
particular
resource group in this subscription
we can kind of see this going all the
way i'm trying to find my demo vm there
we go
if i look at its access control and look
at its role assignments
i can see well that resource group has
some inherited from the subscription
i can see some
were inherited from the management group
and there might even be ones that were
set directly on this resource itself
some actually from the root as well
and that would actually apply into the
individual resource if i now want to
looked at saying as basic
as a disk
and also its access control
well they all got inherited down as well
so the key point here is what do we do
with management groups
there to help us manage groups of
subscriptions and the resource within
for the purposes of role-based access
control of policy
and potentially rolling up a certain
budget so i'm going to create them what
makes sense for me could be geography
could be business unit it could be
environment for example dev or
production it's there to make our life
easier so don't over complicate it
create them where it will actually bring
you benefit